Introduction

Does art transcend age and race, focusing on the achievements of a particular faction of society that others may ignore in favor of grandeur items? It seemingly appears as a storytelling form propagating various notions in society.
Discussion

Georgia O’Keefe represents this inclusion notion ideally through her myriad of works over the years. The artist continually claimed she would make New Yorkers turn their heads and notice flowers (Biography.com, 2021). While minuscule, these paintings elicited a certain allure that promoted the artist’s work due to its connection between abstract and concrete notions. Georgia’s appreciation for her environment is further visible in her paintings involving different landscapes such as New York skyscrapers and New Mexico (Biography.com, 2021). The artist did not exhibit the variations in different flowers (based on the increased size in her paintings); instead, she sought to include as much detail on her topic. Georgia ascertained the need to remain neutral and exhibit nature and our surroundings in all their glory, rather than altering appearances to maintain a particular image. Her stories tell of a diverse and beautiful environment that exhibits some forms of order despite the chaotic nature of life.

Leonardo Da Vinci is one of history’s most iconic artists. He wrote down notebooks concerning various factions of nature, such as architecture and botany (Biography.com, 2019). It is interesting to note the latter subject as one of Georgia O’Keefe’s focuses. The famous Sicilian artist shared this aspect with the American icon, indicating the intricacies involved in daily life that people may fail to notice due to the concept that other things are existent in the world with more direct influence on one’s life. The illustration posited below is a flower painting in Da Vinci’s notebooks. The intricate details showcase curiosity and understanding of the flower’s different parts and sizes; Da Vinci uses a similar form of drawing to Georgia, ignoring the flower’s actual size to illuminate its beauty.

Baca’s The Great Wall of Los Angeles depicts Japanese Americans that fought in World War II while more than one hundred thousand of their compatriots were incarcerated in the USA (Gordon, 2020). Its light shading on the top side of the mural showcases the soldiers’ hopes of working together with other Americans to end fascist dominance.
Conclusion

In contrast, the dark shading in the mural’s bottom parts depicts a dark picture of subordination to one’s culture. This factor led to mass incarceration despite their fellow citizens fighting on the Allies’ side in the World War.

The Allies' side in the World War
References

Biography.com. (2019). Leonardo da Vinci – Notebooks. Biography.com. Web.

Biography.com. (2021). Georgia O’Keeffe. Biography.com. Web.

Gordon, P. (2020). Art matters: A contemporary approach to art appreciation. Oxford University Press.